---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 UI Basics
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-11
labels:

---
<p>After reading the instructions for BrowserHistory1, I felt prepared because of the assigned readings and the labs we did in class. I saw all the steps I had to do and I wasn't unfamiliar with anything. Despite this, my timer still went off before I could finish because I was scrounging around in my notes to find the correct tags to use. After retrying it without watching the screencast, I got my time to around 18 minutes. Most of my time was spent typing and moving things around, and after watching the screencast, I realized I could just highlight what I want to put inside the p tags and drag it inside instead of cutting the p tag and going all the way down to paste it. I also didn't have word wrap on, so I was scrolling back and forth. After fixing these things, it shaved some time off.</p>
<p>My first attempt of BrowserHistory2 was around 13 minutes. I was googling and looking through my notes again which added time. I was inputting the fonts without realizing I had to insert a link to the html file first, I was trying to type "text-width" without realizing it was just "width", and I had to look up the float property. Very small, careless errors. I was able to get my time to around seven minutes after my first attempt before watching the screencast.</p>
<p>I had the most difficulty with BrowserHistory3. I was familiar with the steps taken with the first two WODs, but I didn't know where to start with this one. I ended up googling things like columns but it was confusing so I didn't think it was right, so I ended up watching some of the screencast just to get some direction. I found out I had to use the div tag as well as the float property (instead of column lol), which made complete sense to me right as I saw it, so I tried doing the rest by myself. Moving on to the navbar, I was going to delete the ul and li tags in the html file but I didn't think it was right, so I was googling again. I ended up with the li selector and display: inline for my navbar. Then, I completed watching the full screencast and wow. My first attempt was over time, and my second attempt after watching the full screencast was around seven minutes.</p>
<p>After completing these WODs, I realize how much effort I need to put into actually reading the readings. I read and take notes, but I don't have a file open to actually test out what these things actually do while I'm learning about it, which I will start doing. I also don't know if the way I do the WODs is helpful. During my first attempts, I would try my best to do it without any guidance from the screencast (except for BrowserHistory3). I was googling, looking through my notes and the readings, and did a second attempt with the knowledge that I got from google and the readings/notes, and my time would be close to Rx, but still Av. Then, I would watch the screencast and see what's up and learn from them and retry it again.</p>
