---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 Preparing for WODs
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-26
published: true
labels:
  
---
<p><b>BrowserHistory6:</b> This WOD tasked us to create buttons that displayed the browsers' icons when hovered upon. I went into this WOD fully prepared due to the labs we've done in class that included creating buttons with onmouseover elements. It went very smoothly for me and I was able to complete this on my first try within the time limit. 
<p><b>Invoice1:</b> This WOD tasked us to create a sales receipt that contains five different products and computations. Our code could not be hard-coded and we had to use an HTML table. I had no problems with this WOD. The only thing I need to work on is how slow I was/my inefficiency with using find and replace; it would take me so long just changing the numbers for each variable (item1, item 2..). The WOD before this was SmartPhoneProducts_variables, which was very similar to this Invoice1 in defining variables and using document.write() to display them. It was a good intro into this WOD, which let me finish within Rx time and on my first try.
<p><b>Invoice2:</b> For this WOD, we had to add a new line to calculate shipping using conditional statements and make some changes to the computations for our invoice. The only thing that made me think a little bit was creating the conditional statements. I had to determine whether to use "else" or "else if" and made some corrections but ultimately finished within the time frame and on my first try. 
<p><b>SmartPhoneProducts_variables:</b> This goal of this WOD was to use variables to eliminate hard-coding, so it consisted of using document.write to reference items from another file. This was very straightforward and easy to accomplish. However, I took forever just writing each line of code out because I totally forgot that find and replace existed, so I was manually changing each variable name. So besides that, this WOD went smoothly and I was able to complete this on my first try within the appropriate time. 
<p><b>SmartPhoneProducts2:</b> For this WOD, we had to use a loop to reduce the amount of code it took just to display the products of our store. I was a little nervous(?) because I wasn't confident in myself when completing the lab for loops in class and I felt like I needed more practice. I made sure to read the eval() function reading and have one last glance at my lab and the previous readings involving loops. This was a good choice, because I could follow the directions and they weren't confusing; I knew what to do even though I thought I would struggle with this. I was able to complete this on my first try within the time limit. 
<p>Everything that we did in class helped me for these WODs. Lectures, examples, readings, the labs — they were all extremely beneficial and made them go smoothly. For one to be successful in completing these WODs, I would say you need to understand what you're doing in the labs because these WODs are basically testing your understanding of what you learn in class. Make sure to go through the readings and take notes and try to run your own code to grasp new concepts. For the next WODs, I will make sure to review the most recent lab as well as the readings. I will also master find and replace, because seriously, it took so long changing every single item, quantity, and price number. </p>
