---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-05
published: true
labels:
---

<p><b>My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:</b></p>
<p>I am able to identify problems I have made in my code and why it doesn't work, even if it takes some trial and error. By commenting out my code, I'm able to keep things organized but it also teaches me to really understand what it is I'm implementing and if it's the most efficient way to accomplish the task. I can follow along in class and not feel left behind, and I can think of my own solutions and refer back to previous things I have learned. </p>

<p><b>I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:</b></p>
<p>I would greatly benefit from making a simple map of what I want to accomplish with my code. I tend to just jump right in with no plan and no organizatinal structure; I really need to work on this. I could first start off with the main ideas I need to complete, and start making steps as to how I could achieve this. I could then make a "skeleton" of the code and add more and more details as I get into it. Using this strategy would keep my thoughts and code organized and ultimately leave me with less stress. </p>
  
<p><b>I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:</b></p>
<p>There's nothing more satisfying than completing a WOD without looking at the screencast. Or, completing it and watching the screencast to see that it was done in a different way but you got the same result. This makes me feel good in my ability to program and my ability to retain information from class and the resources provided to come up with my own ways to solve a problem. I definitely have learned a lot from the WODs and they've helped me with many, many homeworks.</p>

<p><b>The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:</b></p>
<p>It's no doubt that the labs have helped me learn, but I'm not sure I can say that I'm able to complete them with confidence. As we go through the labs, my understanding of the topics of the module gets clearer and I enjoy putting everything together. There are times where I'm confused and I'm not sure what the answer may be, but as I've gone through lab after lab my ability to answer questions and think critically has improved. </p>

<p><b>I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:</b></p>
<p>I definitely have learned a lot from Assignment 1. I was so grateful for the labs and the WODs because it was just like what professor said, they were really preparing us for Assignment 1. I'm happy that I didn't feel completely lost, I was absolutely challenged -- but I never felt lost. Nothing outlined in the directions was new to me (it shouldn't have been anyway) and I also started on  Assignment 1 in advance so I had ample time to work through any problems that arose. +1 for my listening and paying attention in class skills. I don't know if I feel ready to work on Assignment 2, I mean, we have only spent a short amount of time on the topic that we're supposed to be implementing, but I'll figure it out one way or another.</p>

<p><b>I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:</b></p>
<p>For a beginner programming class, I think it's very nice. I understand that we have to cover modules and it seems fast-paced, but with the resources given it's primarily up to how the students use their resources. One thing that could be improved are the labs. Sometimes, there are confusing directions in which it's unclear as to what the next step may be or what the question is even asking. </p>

<p><b>What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):</b></p>
<p>The WODs are a big, big help. They're related to the topics we're currently learning in class, so it helps with understanding the concepts and making us think for ourselves and implement what we've learned to create something on our own. It's very helpful. The readings are always helpful, I think it's important to try out some of the code that you're reading about to help you understand it fully, and w3schools implements this in their website which is awesome. I feel the same way with the labs as well. </p>
