---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-18
published: true
labels:
---

<p><b>Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details</b></p>
<p>In Assignment 2, we had to expand on the webstore we made in Assignment 1 by implementing a user registration and login page with validation and further enhancements like added security, personalization, and just overall more organized and effective code and a cleaner and improved store. </p>
<p><b>What did you learn from this assignment?</b></p>
<p>I learned so much on the server side, specifically processing and validating data. This includes saving data to a json file and overwriting it, processing a registration and letting the user go to the invoice, processing and saving a registration so the user can login again, and various formatting requirements like making the passwords case sensitive. In addition, I learned a lot about the process of building code, as opposed to how I just jumped right into Assignment 1 with no plan. I planned, solved problems, and took notes on what needed to be done, what needed to be fixed, and things that could be improved. </p>
<p><b>Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).</b></p>
<p>I worked alone for this assignment. </p>
<p><b>How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?</b></p>
<p>I got help by googling, because thankfully, I didn't need major help that required contacting others. I needed help with understanding redirection and smaller affairs like regex, and there were many resources for me to read through. Anything other than that I was able to figure out through the file i/o lab and the example code that was presented. </p>
<p><b>How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?</b></p>
<p>This was definitely harder, even though we only had to add a few things to our webstore from Assignment 1. Majority of what we had to do was on the server, and I feel like I had to be more organized and thorough while working because if one thing didn't work, then the whole assignment wouldn't work because of the validations and processing of user data. </p>
<p><b>Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging</b></p>30% thinking about how to do something, 40% writing code, and 30% testing and debugging. I learned how important it is to make an outline or plan of what I need the code to do, so there was lots of planning. My code probably had a success rate of 50% on the first implementation, and I could figure it out once I tested and thought about it more. </p>
<p><b>Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?</b></p>
<p>Everything that was explained during the lab worked well, but that was honestly such a small part of the assignment, that's why the assignement as a whole was challenging for me. The validation of user data worked out well because it was fairly straightforward, but the login process and editing user data process was hard and left me stressed, because I had made many small mistakes that I couldn't recognize which messed up everything. </p>
<p><b>If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?</b></p>
<p>I would talk with my classmates more, I just kept to myself which isn't helpful or productive at all; collaborating and sharing ideas with others would have definitely benefitted me. I would also spend more time reading and actually understanding what I'm doing in the lab. </p>
