---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E6 Assignment 3 Retrospective Blog
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-12-12
published: true
labels:
---

<h3><b>Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)</b></h3>
<p>My system is an online cafe that sells Kirby goods, including main dishes, drinks, and treats.</p>

<h3><b>Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?</b></h3>
<p>Yes, my personal requirement is not working exactly right. There is also a sudo npm error when registering users; it doesn't affect the data posting to the server but the error page still pops up and requires you to hit the back page button.</p>

<h3><b>Describe what you are most proud of about your system:</b></h3>
<p>I am most proud of how it visually looks. I don't know if I should be proud about that because this is a programming class.</p>

<h3><b>Describe what you are least happy with your system:</b></h3>
<p>I am least happy with my search bar. It's not working properly and it jumpscares me because the product image suddenly pops up really big.</p>

<h3><b>How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?</b></h3>
<p>This was different than assignment 2 because we were now using sessions to pass data, and although we had to implement less things that the previous two assignments, I found myself struggling a lot. It felt as if it took so much more time to write so little code.</p>

<h3><b>When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?</b></h3>
<p>If I ran into a problem, I would first look at my code to see if it's a spelling error, or something easy that I just went a little too fast on and didn't catch. I found that a lot of the times when I went to check my code, it gave me time to just slow down and carefully read through my code and I fixed a lot of my errors right then and there. If I still ran into trouble, I would go to my best friend, Google. I did a huge, huge amount of reading for assignment 3. </p>

<h3><b>Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?</b></h3>
<p>I found that the code examples we were given helped me a lot and worked well. The examples gave me structure to build upon because I did not have to start entirely from scratch. I feel like a lot of things went well, but the things that went wrong were extra bad in weight.</p>

<h3><b>Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?</b></h3>
<p>My individual requirement did not work well and my organization just went out the door. I gave myself a day to review and comment out all of the code, and that helped. There were many things that had the smallest fixes, but I spent hours or days mulling and thinking about the solution.</p>

<h3><b>What did you learn from doing this assignment?</b></h3>
<p>I learned that having a plan, being organized, and starting early is the optimal way of doing assignments. I learned how websites are made, and it has made me weirdly hyperaware when I visit websites now, I think about how each one works and how specific elements were implemented.</p>

<h3><b>If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?</b></h3>
<p>I would have reached to Professor Kazman. I need to realize when something's not working and when to ask for help instead of failing after trying again and again to fix it myself. I also shouldn't have waited the day before this assignment was due to test it on the server because I have a small sudo npm problem and I could've fixed it if I'd tested it sooner.</p>

<h3><b>Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging</b></h3>
<p>30% thinking about how to do something. It was weird, I found myself going about my day doing various things while thinking about a problem that I had with my code.</p>
<p>30% writing code. </p>
<p>40% debugging.</p>

<h3><b>Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)</b></h3>
<p>I worked alone for this assignment.</p>
